and testing a program or programs.
A computer shop will build a computer from components to meet a customer’s requirements. For each
request for a computer to be built, an estimate of the cost is produced. The component stock level is
checked; if all the components are in stock, a firm order to build the computer can be placed. A program
is required to work out the cost of the computer, update the stock levels and provide a daily summary
of orders for the shop owner.
Write and test a program or programs for the computer shop owner.
• Your program or programs must include appropriate prompts for the entry of data.
• Error messages and other output need to be set out clearly and understandably.
• All variables, constants and other identifiers must have meaningful names.
You will need to complete these three tasks. Each task must be fully tested.
TASK 1 – Produce an estimate.
Write a program for TASK 1 to calculate the cost of building a computer using these components:
Component Choices Prices in $
Processor p3 / p5 / p7 100 / 120 / 200
RAM 16 GB / 32 GB 75 / 150
Storage 1 TB / 2 TB 50 / 100
Screen 19" / 23" 65 / 120
Case Mini Tower / Midi Tower 40 / 70
USB ports 2 ports / 4 ports 10 / 20
The customer makes a choice for each component and an estimate is produced. The estimate must
show a unique estimate number, the components chosen and the price of each component. The
estimate must also show the total cost of the computer, which is calculated as the sum of the cost of
the components chosen plus 20%.
TASK 2 – Place an order.
Using your estimate from TASK 1, check if the components required are in stock. If all the components
are in stock then update the stock levels. Add the unique estimate number to the list of order numbers.
Add the customer’s details and today’s date to the estimate details to finalise the order. Print two
copies of the order, one for the customer and one for the shop.
TASK 3 –Summarise the day’s orders.
Extend TASK 2 to provide an end of day summary showing the number of orders made, the total
number of each component sold and the value of the orders
